	For as long as I can remember, I have wanted to become a computer science student. People always told me I loved computers, video games and understood it better than them, so I thought : “that may just be what I am destined for.” 


	So I started. I studied how to code, I took the classes, I put in the work. Today, I am finally closer than ever to only work on coding. It’s finally time for me to work only on what I’ve always wanted to work on. I dreamed of algorithms, thousands of lines of a language so few people understand, and results, projects that would help the greater good. I knew technology would lead the world somewhere new, and hopefully, better. 


	Besides all the joy I can feel thinking about my future career, I’m also not doing well. It is tiring to try to shake a feeling that won’t go away. I wonder, what am I going to create to help the world ? And so, I look at what my peers have done, and what they want to do. It is almost each and every time that I hear or read the term AI when people express their aspirations. ”I want to work in AI”, “I use AI to create better solutions” “AI this… AI that.” At first, I saw it as a useful tool, a helper. Then I saw that art took a toll because of it, and I liked it less. And now, after using so much water to make it work, we have just entered our “global water bankruptcy” era, according to the UN, I mean how great !! 


	I now wonder, would the child I used to be still dream of coding and developping algorithms, if she knew most of her work would destroy our world ? Would she work as much as she did knowing one day, some all-knowing tool could just stop her from using her brain ? Wouldn’t she run from this toxic environment supposedly “helping the world become a better place” to work somewhere she knew is actually making the world better ? 


	So now, as I open my computer, I freeze. I don’t know what is the whole point of this. We won’t solve this crisis by writing another program, creating another AI; It will stop if we just unplug the monsters we’ve created. They are that easy to stop : electricity. But we won’t, because dying loaded is better than living normally to some people. Or because others just think “AI is amazing, I can stop thinking about so much”. We’re slowly expiring, mentally and soon, physically too. What I wanted to do has no meaning now. I’m studying to become useless, or worse : corrupt. 


	AI destroyed my childhood dream, and I can only hope it won’t destroy my adult reality.



débizou, ilénanaa