Hello everyone, today is going to be a bit long compared to everything I've ever written, so I hope you'll like it. It has been a while I've wanted to talk about Charli XCX, I just never thought I would have to bring her up in this subject, but here we are. There has been a controversy online for quite a while now about who's the better person : Taylor Swift or Charli XCX, and I feel like this debate just underlies a bigger problem in our society.


what is BRAT ?
According to Wikipedia : Brat is the sixth studio album by British singer Charli XCX, released on 7 June 2024. The album draws influence from the 2000s English rave music scene. Well, it is in fact so much more. BRAT isn’t only an album, it is a phenomenon. It was the energy of 2024, I mean you just could not escape the BRAT SUMMER online. Between Von Dutch, the Apple dance, the Girl, So Confusing or Guess featurings, Charli XCX was EVERYWHERE.


why is the BRAT era so inspiring and massive ?
I wouldn’t exaggerate when saying this is one album that changed my life : allow me to explain. I’ve always liked Charli XCX songs, but I could not call myself a fan, I knew some hits from my childhood, but in 2024 came BRAT. I remember being at my dad’s birthday party, cleaning the dishes and listening to the album the minute it came out, because I just loved the singles so much, the whole album needed to be as good, and thank our British star for that, it was. But it wasn’t just the catchy productions or the massive autotune, it was the lyrics, the meaning behind them, even if back to back is repeated the whole song, IT MAKES SENSE. Saying Charli XCX is a lyrical genius is stretching it, of course, she even made fun of it herself, but she does carry weight in what she writes. To put it in a way that you might understand better, she brought back the 2000’s songs : fun beats with wrecking lyrics. We had too many depressed artists with sad ballads in the 2020’s and Charli made sure to bring back some of that recession pop with her album. I guess that is what people connected with, you can pour your heart out while pouring yourself a party drink.


the “diss” song that is not one
Out of all the songs, one really felt close to home, Sympathy is a knife. To me, it was an amazing explanation of womanhood and jealousy towards someone who’s doing better than you. What I absolutely loved is the reminder that you can be jealous of someone even if you don’t want what they have. You just know that if you wanted it, you couldn’t have it, because that is not you. I could cry to this song, and dance also, but hey- multitasking right ? To every woman, this song has a specific meaning and person attached to it. Even to the artist herself. This is where I’m already getting controversial for some people. I got the Taylor Swift references right away, and yet I loved Sympathy is a knife. That shouldn’t be controversial though. It isn’t what people call a “diss track”, it is just a tale of what it is to live next to someone so big, someone you wish you could become. It’s about paranoia of being less, it’s just expressing how someone can bring out your insecurities so quickly, because they exist. I feel like it is agreeable having an artist finally saying “I’m not friends with this person, not because we have beef, just because we are not on the same page, and it’s ok”. Celebrities are expected to all be friends, while check your own life buddy, there are some people you don’t want to talk to, just because. And it’s ok. But this time, I guess it wasn’t to the other party involved in the song…


it’s actually not that romantic 
The time must come when Taylor Swift puts out her brand new album TLOAS, and when she did, boy was it chaos. Before the album came out, I had bought tickets to the nearest cinema to go to the listening party. I was so hyped, Swift even claimed this album to bring back the pop of 1989, I can only say the result was disappointing. That’s when I tried to convince myself that I was just expecting too much. At the movie theater too, I listened to the explanations and closely read the lyrics, and even with people dancing right and left, i couldn’t shake this weird feeling. I did not like the album. There were some okay songs, but I only appreciated them for a moment, until I reached the problematic song. I really thought “Actually romantic” would be a romance song, but it turned out to be a cheap “Regina George”-like diss track that I think even kindergarteners can find immature. That made me think, is it the fact that Charli XCX, an artist I praised all year is attacked, or the ridiculous lyrics adding to that right wing personality Taylor Swift seems to be embracing these days that made me mad ?


being a mean girl is only cute on paper 
It’s been some years now that the phenomenon of being a mean girl has become romanticized online. Young girls aspire to become Blair Waldorf, not only the fashion icon, but the whole person, the mean manipulative self-serving queen bee. Or they want to be like Regina George, Jennifer in Jennifer’s Body, or Chanel from Scream Queens. That seems appealing when you show the power they hold over everyone, but people tend to forget they may be the queen bees, they are also the most insecure people you’ll ever get to know. This leads us to our debate : why is Charli rewarded for her song and Taylor bashed ? Well, in a world of mean girls, what the public like better is the authenticity. We already discussed the meaning of “Sympathy is a knife”, and this song was rewarded for showing insecurities, showing Charli’s true self, not an untouchable queen of pop, a normal person just like us, doubting her worth and sometimes resenting people she knows she shouldn’t. Whereas Swift has decided to take the “out of touch” mega popstar approach, which wasn’t really the way to go in the big 2025. Rather than seeing someone fighting for herself, the public got a vision of a bully, twisting beautiful and meaningful words into a weird and awkward “love” song to a hater THAT DOESN’T EXIST. Someone said “she is the only artist that can lose a fight against no one” and gosh, I can tell you I laughed really hard on this one.


being brainwashed isn’t on my wi$h li$t 
Now, when I said Taylor lost a fight, and Charli was praised, well… I may have exaggerated a bit. You see, we live in a world where if you’re fan of an artist, they can do no wrong, or else, you’re a hater. So yeah, when this song came out, some Swifties were quick to go harass whoever was associated to Charli XCX online, because I mean, that’s how you handle a fight in a mature way, right ? This paragraph is going to be political, I apologize in advance if you wanted a neutral post, but there is a point where you can’t be neutral about a subject when it touches extremes. It is fully okay to love an artist, what isn’t is to threaten or bully people who criticize something about them, or just admit they don’t particularly like their work. You have K-Pop stans who set the bar really high, but let me tell you that some Swifties just break records each and every time. We have come to a point where we, humans, are scared for our lives because we express opinions. Claiming to be for the freedom of speech of your artist, then trying to censor those who address problems they may cause, just shows how hypocritical this fandom has become. Which brings me to my final point…


learn to criticize your artists every once in a while 
Yeah, so I’ve been a Swiftie for like 2 years, from 2023 to 2025, and that already has been a wild ride. I’ll dive deeper on this subject in another post, but you have to understand that, Taylor Swift is a brand. Not a person, not an artist anymore, she’s just a brand. Moving to appeal to the majority, climbing higher and higher, until there is a point you just can’t reach her. This point happened in 2024, with the Eras Tour. She was on top of the world, and advocating against MAGA. Today, she can stay silent about ICE, about her country being torn apart by white supremacists, why ? Because she’s safe. She’s rich, she’s white and now she is part of a MAGA family, I mean, how better could it get for her right now ? She could write a whole album about how she’s just a girl, saved by Prince Charming, and the Republicans would welcome her with open arms. So yeah, in the near-apocalyptic climate USA (and heck, the whole world) is now in, saying you’re “nothing but a woman, and that’s not much” isn’t the way to go. Learn to read, analyze and criticize your artists, because if we just keep on nodding and yessing, it isn’t just music that will go south, it’s whole ideologies and societies that will suffer.
They are safe, you aren’t. But we are bigger than they will ever be, so fight. Fight for your rights, fight for your ideas, fight for your society. And yes, it can start with learning to say you don’t like someone’s lyrics.


I hope you enjoyed this article, feel free to comment your take on this subject and offer any topic you would like me to discuss. Until next time !

débizou, ilénanaa
